MPU 6050 Datasheet Review
What I Was Confused About:
Which register was i supposed to read? all of them?
How was i supposed to read it? memorize? jot down the numbers i think are important?
Some technical terms thrown around frequently in the documentation..
apart from that, shii was sweet.

Enlightenment:
A little more on how register works (like i just found out registers can have access to other registers.. or one register and another having the same function (essentially reaching towards the same register)
the decimal and hexadecimal address of cool registers (RESET, some i2c features, power management, gyroscope and accelerometer initialization etc)

Questions:
How am i going to call these registers and read or write to or from the through code.






R/W Operations to the Power Management Register
What I Was Confused About:
The "lifespan" of transactions. that shii made me pull my damn hair.. 
The register to choose from was also quite confusing to choose. But i soon realized i was overthinking it.

Enlightenment:
Each transaction need to accomplish a certain (one) action. no more than that (usually)
a transaction does not mean a loop iteration. nor does the protocol lifespan.

Questions:
Eh, pulling my hair gave me all the enlightenment i need i guess.






MPU6050 Driver
What I Was Confused About:
At first the purpose or definition of a driver was a bit ambiguous in my head. But i was able to understand its purpose. (not necessarily a necessity but makes writing to registers "easier") though that is a little bit of an understatement.
the whole std::optional was a new concept i was introduced to today.
I also just found out method types can include classes. and it doesn't mean the function itself is a class but that its return type is a class. crazy..
It took me a while trying to pick an architecture to follow on how to "save and read" the gyroscope and accelerometer readings.. Should i make them private and seperate the "sensing" action from the "getting" action? should i make the readings not objects themselves but values copied to the object the user creates at initialization (which was what i later went with)? Or should i have made the reading structs have all public variables and not private?

Enlightenment:
Much more confidence in reading datasheet and register maps.. like i was actually understanding and implementing stuff rather than seeing a bunch of confusing numbers.
A better understanding of classes, structs and the optional library as i spent hours on hours trying to figure out how it worked.
More variable knowledge (uint8_t, uint16_t, unsigned ints, etc)

Questions:
The wire functions... it seems to be doing a lot of things at the background automatically for me. Which is nice if i didn't have a rough internal architecture on how the code should work. but trips me up when i realize that i havent actually indicated the pin number the sensor is going to be attached to (8 for SDA and 9 for SCL (ESP32-C3 SuperMini) by default). I wonder if the ESP-IDF will also have these "training wheels" or not.
